if you'd ask me to describe 10 years ago
or seven years ago the way the immune
system tackles a virus or a bacterium I
could describe it pretty methodically
what I thought I could describe pretty
pretty methodically and then all of a
sudden
um cyroscope 2 has turned all of that
upside down we've suddenly realized that
they're gaping holes in our knowledge
about how the immune system works and
how viruses can potentially contort the
immune system such that it doesn't work
the way that we thought it worked one
example is uh is the phenomena of long
coverage maybe they're long virus
syndromes for many other viruses and
maybe we just have been ignoring them
because we haven't looked
[Music]
you have a chapter in your book on the
pandemic that you say that you're right
when we thought we understood uh immune
system so well then biblically we
tumbled I think that's what you said so
uh you know if you could talk a bit
about that and about how the virus kind
of interacted with cells uh you know why
was it so severe in say some patients
then seemingly fit
right so
um the tumbling that happened I think is
a is very important everything I wrote
several pieces for the New Yorker uh
about this uh this idea of tumbling
um I think that there was a moment of
time in which I think we
um as as a scientific community and as a
medical biomedical Community thought
that we understood vaccination virology
and Immunology
um among the deepest uh within the
scientific Realms if you took all the
systems these were things that we
thought we understood very well
um and then all of a sudden
um here comes a virus
um that really challenges
um very fundamental things that we know
and don't know about uh how the immune
system works how the immune system so
the for a long time we had actually
built pretty sophisticated models
um of the methodic way in which the
immune system tackles a virus or a
bacterium and we thought we had covered
covered the bases if you would ask me to
describe 10 years ago or seven years ago
the way the immune system tackles a
virus or a bacterium I could describe it
pretty methodically what I thought I
could describe it pretty pretty
methodically and then all of a sudden
sarskov 2 has turned all of that upside
down we've suddenly realized that there
are gaping holes in our knowledge about
how the immune system works and how
viruses can potentially contort the
immune system such that it doesn't work
the way that we thought it worked um
I'll give you one example and there are
many I'll give you one example one
example is uh is the phenomenon of long
covet so many people have talked about
this it's well known in literature
um but it's raised the question which I
suppose all of you should be thinking
about
um maybe they're long virus syndromes
for many other viruses and maybe we just
have been ignoring them because we
haven't looked and it's because such a
global pandemic that we've learned to
understand the autoimmune consequences
of of covid in the long run but maybe
there's a long influenza syndrome maybe
there is a long Epstein-Barr virus
syndrome maybe there's a long you know
whatever other virus that you might
might call it whatever the bacteria you
might be infected with we don't know
because we haven't been looking and so
all of a sudden our our assumptions
about what uh the human body or how the
human body deals with uh viral
infections in the long run in the
10-year run seven year run etc etc have
all been I think quite severely uh
challenged
you know I have a very mild version of
long cover with myself I can you may men
or people who've heard me before can
hear it in my voice my voice is
permanently changed since I had since
I'd covered it's technically long
covered
um but that's just my voice and you hear
it every day and therefore you can get a
sense of it I have a sense of it but you
know there may be other parts of your
body that are invisible uh invisible for
the most part to Medicine which may have
changed permanently because of of one
infection or another infection so that's
I think the the the the the the the
tumbling that has happened and and a
re-examination I wrote a piece for a
cell magazine called before virus after
virus a reckoning if anyone's interested
in sort of these ideas I think they're
very very provocative ideas but they're
all in that piece so do read read it um
because we may we maybe we may be sort
of just looking underneath the mat
um and finding all sorts of things that
we hadn't discovered before
your second question had to do with
um why did some why do some people have
very severe reactions
um to uh to covert well there we we know
quite a lot about it now we didn't know
about it before
um and they're all everything about this
is is surprising
um
surprise number one is that it turns out
that some people apparently healthy
um tends to happen more in men than in
women apparently healthy
um so so listen carefully and get this
have a pre-existing
pre-existing autoimmune disease that has
invisibly because no one knew about it
invisibly affected their capacity to
respond to viruses they live in they're
living amongst us we don't know about
them it's only when kovid strikes that
all of a sudden that in previously
invisible incapacity to respond to the
virus becomes visible and those are
people who are actors so it's an
autoimmune disease those are people who
actually get very severely affected by
covid totally surprising results no one
ever had even heard about it before so
that's one explanation
some people have a genetic changes or
mutations or variations in genes that
have to do with the immune system
totally invisible for the most part no
one knows about it they go about their
lives normally until covet hits and all
of a sudden they are become susceptible
to severe covid those are some examples
and we're discovering more and more
about how some people are wise some
people have a greater susceptibility to
covid and to and and to Long covet I'll
throw you another sort of surprising
swinger
um previous Epstein-Barr Virus Infection
is one of the major uh previous active
extreme biovirus infection including
previous mononucleosis which is a
consequence of Epstein-Barr Virus
Infection has a strong correlation with
long covid why no one knows but again
we're lifting up the mat and beginning
to see things that we just really hadn't
known about Immunology a subject that
I've studied now for
30 odd years and people have studied for
you know 150 odd years and all of a
sudden are finding absolutely new things
that we had no idea about before
fascinating fascinating new ideas in
Immunology the whole whole new branch of
Immunology really